"Using application configuration for libraries" added (Anti-patterns documentation) (#12944)
elixir-lang/elixir: lib/elixir/pages/anti-patterns/design-anti-patterns.md

## Using application configuration for libraries

#### Problem

> The [*application environment*](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/1.15/Application.html#module-the-application-environment) can be used to parameterize global values that can be used in an Elixir system. This parameterization mechanism can be very useful and therefore is not considered an anti-pattern by itself. However, library authors should avoid using the application environment to configure their library. The reason is exactly that the application environment is a **global** state, so there can only be a single value for each key in the environment for an application. This makes it impossible for multiple applications depending on the same library to configure the same aspect of the library in different ways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [*application environment*](https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/Application.html#module-the-application-environment) can be used to parameterize global values that can be used in an Elixir system. This mechanism can be very useful and therefore is not considered an anti-pattern by itself. However, library authors should avoid using the application environment to configure their library. The reason is exactly that the application environment is a **global** state, so there can only be a single value for each key in the environment for an application. This makes it impossible for multiple applications depending on the same library to configure the same aspect of the library in different ways.
```

```elixir
defmodule DashSplitter do
  def split(string) when is_binary(string) do
    parts = Application.fetch_env!(:app_config, :parts) # <= retrieve parameterized value
    String.split(string, "-", parts: parts)             # <= parts: 3
  end
end
```

Due to this parameterized value used by the `DashSplitter` library, all applications dependent on it can only use the `split/1` function with identical behavior about the number of parts generated by string separation. Currently, this value is equal to 3, as we can see in the use examples shown below:

```elixir
iex> DashSplitter.split("Lucas-Francisco-Vegi")
["Lucas", "Francisco", "Vegi"]
iex> DashSplitter.split("Lucas-Francisco-da-Matta-Vegi")
["Lucas", "Francisco", "da-Matta-Vegi"]
```

#### Refactoring

> To remove this anti-pattern and make the library more adaptable and flexible, this type of configuration must be performed via parameters in function calls. The code shown below performs the refactoring of the `split/1` function by adding a new optional parameter of type *Keyword list*. With this new parameter, it is possible to modify the default behavior of the function at the time of its call, allowing multiple different ways of using `split/2` within the same application:

Reviewer 2: `` [keyword list](`t:keyword/0`) `` would work. it wouldn't be a very useful link however, it goes to the huge list of types at https://hexdocs.pm/elixir/typespecs.html#built-in-types.

> To remove this anti-pattern and make the library more adaptable and flexible, this type of configuration must be performed via parameters in function calls. The code shown below performs the refactoring of the `split/1` function by adding a new optional parameter of type *Keyword list*. With this new parameter, it is possible to modify the default behavior of the function at the time of its call, allowing multiple different ways of using `split/2` within the same application:

Reviewer 3: True, then we could link to `t:Keyword.t/0`.

> To remove this anti-pattern and make the library more adaptable and flexible, this type of configuration must be performed via parameters in function calls. The code shown below performs the refactoring of the `split/1` function by adding a new optional parameter of type *Keyword list*. With this new parameter, it is possible to modify the default behavior of the function at the time of its call, allowing multiple different ways of using `split/2` within the same application:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To remove this anti-pattern and make the library more adaptable and flexible, this type of configuration must be performed via parameters in function calls. The code shown below performs the refactoring of the `split/1` function by accepting [keyword lists](`Keyword`) as a new optional parameter. With this new parameter, it is possible to modify the default behavior of the function at the time of its call, allowing multiple different ways of using `split/2` within the same application:
```
